docs: Adding space shooter tutorial step4 (#2922)
flame-engine/flame: doc/tutorials/space_shooter/step_4.md

# Adding bullets

For this next step we will add a very important feature to any space shooter game, shooting!

> Here is how we will implement it: since we already control our space ship by dragging the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how we will implement it: since we already control our space ship by dragging on the screen
```

with the mouse/fingers, we will make the ship auto shoot when the player stars the dragging and
stops shooting when the gesture/input has ended.

> So let's start, to begin with it, let's first create a `Bullet` component that will represent the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So let's start, to begin let's first create a `Bullet` component that will represent the
```

> shoots in the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shots in the game.
```
Hahah this is a classic Erick typo 😄

Author: I hate english

Author: I even googled to be sure 🤦

```dart
class Bullet extends SpriteAnimationComponent
    with HasGameReference<SpaceShooterGame> {
  Bullet({
    super.position,
  }) : super(size: Vector2(25, 50));

  @override
  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    await super.onLoad();

    animation = await game.loadSpriteAnimation(
      'bullet.png',
      SpriteAnimationData.sequenced(
        amount: 4,
        stepTime: .2,
        textureSize: Vector2(8, 16),
      ),
    );

    width = 25;
    height = 50;
    anchor = Anchor.center;
  }
}
```

> So far, this does not introduces any new concept, we just created a component, setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, this does not introduce any new concepts, we just created a component and set
```

up its animations attributes.

> A `Bullet` behavior is a simple one, it always moves towards to the top of the screen and should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Bullet` behavior is a simple one, it always moves towards the top of the screen and should
```

> be removed from the game if they are not visible anymore, so let's add an `update` method to it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be removed from the game if it is not visible anymore, so let's add an `update` method to it
```

and make it happen:

```dart
class Bullet extends SpriteAnimationComponent
    with HasGameReference<SpaceShooterGame> {
  Bullet({
    super.position,
  }) : super(size: Vector2(25, 50));

  @override
  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    // Omitted
  }

  @override
  void update(double dt) {
    super.update(dt);

    position.y += dt * -500;

    if (position.y < -height) {
      removeFromParent();
    }
  }
}
```

The above code should be straight forward, but lets break it down:

- We add to the bullet's y axis position at a rate of -500 pixels per second. Remember going up
in the y axis means getting closer to `0` since the top left corner of the screen is `0, 0`.
- If the y is smaller than the negative value of the bullet's height, means that the component is
completely off the screen and it can be removed.

> Right, we have a `Bullet` class ready now, so lets make start to implement the action of shooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right, we now have a `Bullet` class ready, so lets start to implement the action of shooting.
```

> now. First thing, let's create two empty methods in the `Player` class, `startShooting` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First thing, let's create two empty methods in the `Player` class, `startShooting` and
```

`stopShooting`.

```dart
class Player extends SpriteAnimationComponent
    with HasGameReference<SpaceShooterGame> {

  // Rest of implementation omitted

  void startShooting() {
    // TODO
  }

  void stopShooting() {
    // TODO
  }
}
```

And let's hook into those methods from the game class, we will do that by using the `onPanStart`

> and `onPanEnd` methods from the `PanDetector` mixin that we already have been using for the ship

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be better to use the `DragCallbacks` instead of the pan detector since that will reach the reader how to do this on any component? And then they'll feel familiar when they read about that later.

Author: This was originally written down with the `PanDetector`, `DragCallbacks` was not a thing back when we started it haha.

I could do a refactor on all steps to move to `DragCallbacks`. But I would prefer to do so in a separate PR, wdyt?

Reviewer: Sounds good!

movement:

```dart
class SpaceShooterGame extends FlameGame with PanDetector {
  late Player player;

  // Rest of implementation omitted

  @override
  void onPanUpdate(DragUpdateInfo info) {
    player.move(info.delta.global);
  }

  @override
  void onPanStart(DragStartInfo info) {
    player.startShooting();
  }

  @override
  void onPanEnd(DragEndInfo info) {
    player.stopShooting();
  }
}
```

We now have everything set up, so let's write the shooting routine in our player class.

Remember, the shooting behavior will be adding bullets through time intervals when the player is
dragging the starship.

> We could very much likely implement the time interval code manually, but Flame provides an component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We could very likely implement the time interval code manually, but Flame provides a component
```

out of the box for that, the `TimerComponent`, so let's take advantage of it:

```dart
class Player extends SpriteAnimationComponent
    with HasGameReference<SpaceShooterGame> {

>   late final TimerComponent _bulletSpawner;

Reviewer: We should really add a flag to the `SpawnComponent` so that the position from the lambda can be used instead.

Author: Agree, maybe add an issue to flame to do that and we could revisit this tutorial when that happens?

Reviewer: #2923

  @override
  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    // Loading animation omitted

    _bulletSpawner = TimerComponent(
      period: .2,
      onTick: () {
        final bullet = Bullet(
          position: position +
              Vector2(
                0,
                -height / 2,
              ),
        );
        game.add(bullet);
      },
      repeat: true,
      autoStart: false,
    );

    add(_bulletSpawner);
  }

  void move(Vector2 delta) {
    position.add(delta);
  }

  void startShooting() {
    _bulletSpawner.timer.start();
  }

  void stopShooting() {
    _bulletSpawner.timer.stop();
  }
}
```

> Hopefully the code above speaks for itself, but let's look at it with more detail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hopefully the code above speaks for itself, but let's look at it in more detail:
```

- First we declared a `TimerComponent` called `_bulletSpawner` in our game class, we needed it

> to be an attribute since we will accessing it in the `startShooting` and `stopShooting` methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be an variable accessible to the whole component since we will be accessing it in the `startShooting` and `stopShooting` methods.
```

> - We initialize our `_bulletSpawner` in the `onLoad` method. The first argument `period` we set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We initialize our `_bulletSpawner` in the `onLoad` method. In the first argument, `period`, we set
```

> how much time in seconds will take place between calls, and we choose `.2` seconds for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how much time in seconds it will take between calls, and we choose `.2` seconds for now.
```
